Create use-case-airflow-datasets-multi-team-ml.md (#2546)
astronomer/docs: learn/use-case-airflow-datasets-multi-team-ml.md

---
title: "Orchestrate machine learning pipelines with Airflow datasets"
description: "Using Airflow Datasets to create a Producer/Consumer ML pipeline in Airflow "
id: use-case-airflow-ml-datasets
sidebar_label: "ML orchestration with Airflow datasets"
---

Airflow can play a pivotal role in machine learning (ML) workflows. You can use Airflow DAGs to manage complex ML workflows, handle data dependencies, and ensure fault tolerance, making it easier for your data engineers to handle data inconsistencies, reprocess failed tasks, and maintain the integrity of your data pipelines. 

> ML pipelines are sometimes run by two teams in a producer/consumer relationship. One team produces the clean data, while another team consumes the data in their ML models. This relationship can sometimes include friction when there's not a clear mechanism for delivering clean data to the producing team on a predictable, reliable basis. You can use Airflow datasets and data-driven scheduling remove this friction by scheduling a consumer DAG to run only when its related producer DAG has completed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ML pipelines are sometimes run by two teams in a producer/consumer relationship. One team produces the clean data, while another team consumes the data in their ML models. This relationship can include friction when there's not a clear mechanism for delivering clean data to the producing team on a predictable, reliable basis. You can use Airflow datasets and data-driven scheduling to remove this friction by scheduling a consumer DAG to run only when its related producer DAG has completed.
```

This example project includes two DAGs with a producer/consumer relationship. One DAG extracts and loads housing data into a local S3FileSystem using [minIO](https://min.io/). The DAG's load task includes a dataset that triggers a second consumer DAG when the task completes. The second DAG then takes the data from the first DAG and uses it to train and run a predictive model using [Scikit Learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/). 

> This set up has two main advantages. One is that two teams can work independently on their specific sections of the pipeline without needing to coordinate with each other outside of the initial set up. The second is that because the consumer DAG only triggers after the data arrives, you can avoid situations where the producer DAG takes longer than expected to complete, or where the consumer DAG runs on incomplete data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This setup has two main advantages: 

- Two teams can work independently on their specific sections of the pipeline without needing to coordinate with each other outside of the initial set up. 
- Because the consumer DAG only triggers after the data arrives, you can avoid situations where the producer DAG takes longer than expected to complete, or where the consumer DAG runs on incomplete data.
```

---
title: "Multi-Team ML Pipeline with Airflow Datasets"
description: "Using Airflow Datasets to create a Producer/Consumer ML pipeline in Airflow "
id: use-case-airflow-ml-datasets

> sidebar_label: "Multi-Team ML Pipeline with Airflow Datasets"

Author: Cool might need you to show me the proper way to add it in the .js file during our 1 on 1

---

Airflow plays a pivotal role in machine learning workflows as it provides a robust and scalable platform for orchestrating and managing the entire data pipeline. It facilitates the management of complex ML workflows, handling data dependencies, and ensuring fault tolerance, making it easier for data engineers to handle data inconsistencies, reprocess failed tasks, and maintain the integrity of ML pipelines. 

Many times, ML pipelines are run by two teams in a producer/consumer relationship, where one team produces the clean data for the ML team to consume and use for their models. Airflow datasets and data-driven scheduling can be used to implement this relationship by scheduling the consumer DAG to run only when the producer DAG has completed.

> This example has two DAGs with a producer/consumer relationship. One DAG extracts and loads housing data into a local S3FileSystem. A dataset is defined on the load task, and the updating of that dataset triggers a second consumer DAG. The second DAG then takes that data and uses it to train and run a predictive model. This set up has two main advantages. One is that two teams can work independently on their specific sections of the pipeline without needing to coordinate with each other outside of the initial set up. The second is that because the consumer DAG will only trigger once the data arrives, you can avoid the situation where the producer DAG takes longer than expected to complete and leads to the consumer DAG running on incomplete data.

Author: Committed with just a change from ML Flow to Scikit learn since thats what we're using.

Many times, ML pipelines are run by two teams in a producer/consumer relationship, where one team produces the clean data for the ML team to consume and use for their models. With the introduction of Datasets and Data Driven scheduling in Airflow, now this relationship can be codified and automated as well. This because Airflow Datasets can be used as a scheduling parameter, where the production of a Dataset from one DAG can trigger another DAG to begin running. What this enables is a workflow where upon the arrival of clean data from one team, an ML pipeline can be automatically triggered to run and ingest the clean data for use in model training, without needing to coordinate schedules manually.  

> In this example we provide a model of that exact relationship with two DAG's, one producer DAG that extracts and loads housing data into a local S3FileSystem, and the creation of that dataset triggers a second consumer DAG. This consumer DAG then takes that data and uses it to train and run a predictive model. This set up has two main advantages. One is that two teams can work independently on their specific sections of the pipeline without needing to co-ordinate with each other outside of the initial set up. The second is that because the consumer DAG will only trigger once the data arrives, we avoid the situation where a producer DAG taking longer than expected to complete leads to the consumer DAG not having data to consume because it's scheduled to run at a certain time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example has two DAGs with a producer/consumer relationship. One DAG extracts and loads housing data into a local S3FileSystem. A dataset is defined on the load task, and the updating of that dataset triggers a second consumer DAG. The second DAG then takes that data and uses it to train and run a predictive model. This set up has two main advantages. One is that two teams can work independently on their specific sections of the pipeline without needing to coordinate with each other outside of the initial set up. The second is that because the consumer DAG will only trigger once the data arrives, you can avoid the situation where the producer DAG takes longer than expected to complete and leads to the consumer DAG running on incomplete data.
```

> ![Figma graph screenshot](https://github.com/astronomer/docs/blob/bc981220053224038a752cf0af050ba4316758a7/static/img/examples/usecaseconsumerproducerfigma.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Figma graph screenshot](/img/examples/usecaseconsumerproducerfigma.png)
```
Since these are in the same repo you don't need the full GH link to reference them.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Airflow datasets and their relationships with the two DAGs can be seen in the Airflow datasets view:
```

> ![Datasets View screenshot](https://github.com/astronomer/docs/blob/602e61f562ed2a67fe77e6961378f9c553df528b/static/img/examples/datasetsview.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Datasets View screenshot](/img/examples/datasetsview.png)
```

## Before you start

Before you try this example, make sure you have:

- The [Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/overview).
- [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop).

## Clone the project

> Clone the example project from the [Astronomer GitHub](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-produce-consume-ml/tree/main/astromlfinal). 

Reviewer 2: One more comment - can we clean up this repo to only include the relevant files for this use case and update the readme? e.g. I don't think this one needs the jupyter notebooks?

To run the example project, first make sure Docker Desktop is running. Then, open your project directory and run:

```sh
astro dev start
```

This command builds your project and spins up 6 Docker containers on your machine to run it, the 4 standard airflow components as well as a local minio S3Filesystem and an ML flow instance. After the command finishes, open the Airflow UI at `https://localhost:8080/`, turn on the `astro_ml_producer` and `astro_ml_consumer` DAG's. Then trigger the `astro_ml_producer` DAG using the play button, and the `astro_ml_consumer` DAG will start once the producer DAG has completed. 

![Airflow UI View screenshot](/img/examples/airflowuiview.png)

## Project contents

### Data source

> This project uses a [Scikit learn dataset](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.datasets.fetch_california_housing.html#sklearn.datasets.fetch_california_housing) that contains information on the California housing market. The data is automatically retrieved as part of the DAG, and does not need to be downloaded separately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This project uses a [Scikit learn dataset](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.datasets.fetch_california_housing.html#sklearn.datasets.fetch_california_housing) that contains information on the California housing market. The data is automatically retrieved as part of the DAG and does not need to be downloaded separately.
```

> This project uses a Scikit learn dataset that contains information on the California housing market. [Scikit Dataset](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.datasets.fetch_california_housing.html#sklearn.datasets.fetch_california_housing)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This project uses a [Scikit learn dataset](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.datasets.fetch_california_housing.html#sklearn.datasets.fetch_california_housing) that contains information on the California housing market. The data is automatically retrieved as part of the DAG, and does not need to be downloaded separately.
```

### Project code 

> This project consists of two DAGs. The [astro_ml_producer_DAG](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-produce-consume-ml/blob/main/astromlfinal/dags/astro_ml_producer.py) is the producer DAG that provides the data. It extracts the California Housing dataset from Scikit Learn and builds a model. The [astro_ml_consumer_DAG](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-produce-consume-ml/blob/main/astromlfinal/dags/astro_ml_consumer.py) is the consumer DAG that takes the data from the first and uses it to train a model and generate predictions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This project consists of two DAGs. The [astro_ml_producer_DAG](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-produce-consume-ml/blob/main/astromlfinal/dags/astro_ml_producer.py) is the producer DAG that provides the data. It extracts the California Housing dataset from Scikit Learn and builds a model. The [astro_ml_consumer_DAG](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-produce-consume-ml/blob/main/astromlfinal/dags/astro_ml_consumer.py) is the consumer DAG that uses the data to train a model and generate predictions.
```

> We use this data as it is custom made to work with the Scikit Machine learning package, which we will be using for our model training and predictions. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> This project consists of two DAG's, one [astro_ml_producer_DAG](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-produce-consume-ml/blob/main/astromlfinal/dags/astro_ml_producer.py) which extracts the California Housing dataset from Scikit Learn and builds its model features using the Astro Python SDK [@aql.dataframe](https://astro-sdk-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/astro/sql/operators/dataframe.html) decorator before saving the data into the local S3Filesystem. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This project consists of two DAG's. The [astro_ml_producer_DAG](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-produce-consume-ml/blob/main/astromlfinal/dags/astro_ml_producer.py) extracts the California Housing dataset from Scikit Learn and builds its model features using the Astro Python SDK [@aql.dataframe](https://astro-sdk-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/astro/sql/operators/dataframe.html) decorator before saving the data to the local S3Filesystem. 
```

> The second DAG then takes this data from the local S3Filesystem, and uses it to train a Scikit linear model, before using the model to generate a prediction, which is then saved to the local S3Filesystem as well. 

Reviewer 2: I would add the name of the second DAG file here and link to it, like you did with the first one.

> The first astro_ml_producer DAG has three tasks, the first of which is `extract_housing_data`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first astro_ml_producer DAG has three tasks.
```

> This task imports data from SciKit learn using the fetch_california_housing module, and returns it as a dataframe for the next tasks to use using the Astro SDK [@aql.dataframe](https://astro-sdk-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/astro/sql/operators/dataframe.html) decorator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `extract_housing_data` task imports data from SciKit learn using the fetch_california_housing module, and returns it as a dataframe for the next tasks to use using the Astro SDK [@aql.dataframe](https://astro-sdk-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/astro/sql/operators/dataframe.html) decorator.
```

```python
    @aql.dataframe(task_id='extract')
    def extract_housing_data() -> DataFrame:
        from sklearn.datasets import fetch_california_housing
        return fetch_california_housing(download_if_missing=True, as_frame=True).frame
```

> The next task `build_features` uses the Astro SDK [@aql.dataframe](https://astro-sdk-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/astro/sql/operators/dataframe.html) decorator, which means that it operates on a DataFrame and returns a DataFrame as well, eliminating the need to manually convert the raw California Housing Data into a dataframe. It takes two parameters: raw_df, which represents the raw input DataFrame, and model_dir, which is a string representing the directory where the model artifacts will be stored. 

Reviewer 2: Since this is a pretty long function that's doing multiple things, I would convert this section to bullets so it's easier to follow. Something like
" Then, the `build_features` task uses the Astro SDK [@aql.dataframe](https://astro-sdk-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/astro/sql/operators/dataframe.html) decorator to accomplish the following: [bulleted list]"

        target = 'MedHouseVal'
        X = raw_df.drop(target, axis=1)
        y = raw_df[target]

        scaler = StandardScaler()
        X = pd.DataFrame(scaler.fit_transform(X), columns=X.columns)
        metrics_df = pd.DataFrame(scaler.mean_, index=X.columns)[0].to_dict()

        #Save scalar for later monitoring and eval
        with fs.open(model_dir+'/scalar.joblib', 'wb') as f:
            dump([metrics_df, scaler], f)

        X[target]=y

        return X
```

Finally, the `save_data_to_s3` task uses the Astro SDK [@aql.export_file](https://astro-sdk-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/astro/sql/operators/export.html) decorator to save the raw California Housing Dataset as `housing.csv` to the local S3Filesystem. It runs in parallel to the `build_features` task, both a clean dataset and a feature engineered dataset are saved. 

```python
    loaded_data = aql.export_file(task_id='save_data_to_s3', 
                                     input_data=extract_df, 
                                     output_file=File(os.path.join(data_bucket, 'housing.csv')), 
                                     if_exists="replace")
```

#### Consumer DAG

> The second [astro_ml_consumer_DAG](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-produce-consume-ml/blob/main/astromlfinal/dags/astro_ml_consumer.py) then takes this data from the local S3Filesystem, and uses it to train a Scikit linear model, before using the model to generate a prediction, which is then saved to the local S3Filesystem as well. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`astro_ml_consumer_DAG`](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-produce-consume-ml/blob/main/astromlfinal/dags/astro_ml_consumer.py) takes data from the local S3Filesystem and uses it to train a Scikit linear model. It then uses this model to generate a prediction which is saved to the local S3Filesystem. 
```

> Finally, the third task `save_data_to_s3` in this DAG uses the Astro SDK [@aql.export_file](https://astro-sdk-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/astro/sql/operators/export.html) decorator to save the raw California Housing Dataset as `housing.csv` to the local S3Filesystem. It runs in parallel to the `build_features` task, so we save both a clean dataset and a feature engineered one. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, the `save_data_to_s3` task uses the Astro SDK [@aql.export_file](https://astro-sdk-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/astro/sql/operators/export.html) decorator to save the raw California Housing Dataset as `housing.csv` to the local S3Filesystem. It runs in parallel to the `build_features` task, both a clean dataset and a feature engineered dataset are saved. 
```

First, the `built_features` Dataset from the previous DAG is instantiated so that it can be used as a scheduling parameter. This DAG will start when the `built_features` Dataset is updated by the [astro_ml_producer_DAG](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-produce-consume-ml/blob/main/astromlfinal/dags/astro_ml_producer.py). 

```python
    dataset_uri = "built_features"
    ingestion_dataset = Dataset(dataset_uri)

    @dag(dag_id='astro_ml_consumer', schedule=[Dataset(dataset_uri)], start_date=datetime(2023, 1, 1), catchup=False)
    def astro_ml_consumer():
```

Then, the `train_model` task uses the Astro SDK [@aql.dataframe](https://astro-sdk-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/astro/sql/operators/dataframe.html) decorator to do the following: 

> - Import necessary libraries, including RidgeCV from scikit-learn for ridge regression, numpy for numerical operations, dump from joblib for serialization, and S3FileSystem from s3fs for interacting with an S3-compatible object storage system.
> 
> - Create an instance of S3FileSystem by specifying the access key, secret key, and the endpoint URL of the S3-compatible storage system.
> 
> 
> - Open the file containing the feature DataFrame created by the consumer DAG using the S3 file system (fs.open) and train a ridge regression model on the features.
> 
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Import necessary libraries, including RidgeCV from scikit-learn for ridge regression, numpy for numerical operations, dump from joblib for serialization, and S3FileSystem from s3fs for interacting with an S3-compatible object storage system.

- Create an instance of S3FileSystem by specifying the access key, secret key, and the endpoint URL of the S3-compatible storage system.

- Open the file containing the feature DataFrame created by the consumer DAG using the S3 file system (fs.open) and train a ridge regression model on the features.

```

> We then use the Taskflow API to define the relationships between these tasks, starting the DAG with the `extract_housing_data` task to import the housing dataset and return it as a task output. Then, the `extract_housing_data` task output is passed to the `save_data_to_s3` task to be saved to the local S3FileSystem. In parallel, the same dataset is passed to the `build_features` task, where is used for feature engineering.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need to explain this part about dependencies - we just want to make sure we cover the meaty parts of what the DAG is doing. I'd remove this section and the code snippet below.

> - Serialize and save the trained model to the specified model_dir using the dump function from joblib. The file name for the model is set as 'ridgecv.joblib'. The function returns the URI of the saved model file (model_file_uri), which is the concatenation of model_dir and 'ridgecv.joblib'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Serialize and save the trained model to the specified `model_dir` using the dump function from joblib. The file name for the model is set as 'ridgecv.joblib'. The function returns the URI of the saved model file `(model_file_uri)`, which is the concatenation of `model_dir` and 'ridgecv.joblib'.
```
Any code object or variable name should have `code styling`

> Now that our first producer DAG has produced normalized feature dataset for us to use in our model, we'll create a second [astro_ml_consumer_DAG](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-produce-consume-ml/blob/main/astromlfinal/dags/astro_ml_consumer.py) that consumes that dataset and uses it to train a model, before using it to execute a prediction on Median House Value in California. 

Reviewer 2: I would add subsections for both DAGs, since the descriptions are pretty long.

> Now that our first producer DAG has produced normalized feature dataset for us to use in our model, we'll create a second [astro_ml_consumer_DAG](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-produce-consume-ml/blob/main/astromlfinal/dags/astro_ml_consumer.py) that consumes that dataset and uses it to train a model, before using it to execute a prediction on Median House Value in California. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The second DAG, [astro_ml_consumer_DAG](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-produce-consume-ml/blob/main/astromlfinal/dags/astro_ml_consumer.py), consumes the normalized dataset created by the first DAG and uses it to train a model and execute a prediction on the median house value in California. 
```

> At the top of this DAG, we've instantiated the `built_features` Dataset from the previous DAG again with the following code block so that we can use it as a scheduling parameter for this consumer DAG. This has the effect of triggering this DAG to start when the `built_features` Dataset has been created instead of trying to time it to start after the [astro_ml_producer_DAG](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-produce-consume-ml/blob/main/astromlfinal/dags/astro_ml_producer.py) has completed. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, the `built_features` Dataset from the previous DAG is instantiated so that it can be used as a scheduling parameter. This DAG will start when the `built_features` Dataset is updated by the [astro_ml_producer_DAG](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-produce-consume-ml/blob/main/astromlfinal/dags/astro_ml_producer.py). 
```

```python
    @aql.dataframe(task_id='train')
    def train_model(feature_df:ingestion_dataset, model_dir:str) -> str:
        from sklearn.linear_model import RidgeCV
        import numpy as np
        from joblib import dump
        from s3fs import S3FileSystem

        fs = S3FileSystem(key='minioadmin', secret='minioadmin', client_kwargs={'endpoint_url': "http://host.docker.internal:9000/"})
        
        target = 'MedHouseVal'
        pandasfeature = fs.open("s3://local-xcom/wgizkzybxwtzqffq9oo56ubb5nk1pjjwmp06ehcv2cyij7vte315r9apha22xvfd7.parquet")
        cleanpanda = pd.read_parquet(pandasfeature)

        model = RidgeCV(alphas=np.logspace(-3, 1, num=30))

        reg = model.fit(cleanpanda.drop(target, axis=1), cleanpanda[target ])
        model_file_uri = model_dir+'/ridgecv.joblib'

        with fs.open(model_file_uri, 'wb') as f:
            dump(model, f) 

        return model_file_uri
```

> Then, the `predict_housing` task uses the Astro SDK [@aql.dataframe](https://astro-sdk-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/astro/sql/operators/dataframe.html) decorator to load the trained model and feature DataFrame from the local S3FileSystem, make predictions on the features DataFrame, add the predicted values to the feature DataFrame, and return the feature DataFrame with the predicted values included.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, the `predict_housing` task uses the Astro SDK [`@aql.dataframe`](https://astro-sdk-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/astro/sql/operators/dataframe.html) decorator to load the trained model and feature DataFrame from the local S3FileSystem, make predictions on the features DataFrame, add the predicted values to the feature DataFrame, and return the feature DataFrame with the predicted values included.
```

> The first task `train_model` in this DAG  uses the Astro SDK [@aql.dataframe](https://astro-sdk-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/astro/sql/operators/dataframe.html) decorator to load the normalized feature DataFrame `built_features` from the local S3FileSystem, trains a ridge regression model using the features and target values, then saves the trained model to a specified directory, and returns the URI of the saved model file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `train_model` task uses the Astro SDK [@aql.dataframe](https://astro-sdk-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/astro/sql/operators/dataframe.html) decorator to load the normalized feature DataFrame `built_features` from the local S3FileSystem, train a ridge regression model using the features and target values, save the trained model to a specified directory, and return the URI of the saved model file.
```
Some edits here, but this is probably better as a bulleted list too.

```python
    @aql.dataframe(task_id='predict')
    def predict_housing(feature_df:DataFrame, model_file_uri:str) -> DataFrame:
        from joblib import load
        from s3fs import S3FileSystem

        fs = S3FileSystem(key='minioadmin', secret='minioadmin', client_kwargs={'endpoint_url': "http://host.docker.internal:9000/"})
        with fs.open(model_file_uri, 'rb') as f:
            loaded_model = load(f) 
        featdf = fs.open("s3://local-xcom/wgizkzybxwtzqffq9oo56ubb5nk1pjjwmp06ehcv2cyij7vte315r9apha22xvfd7.parquet")
        cleandf = pd.read_parquet(featdf)

        target = 'MedHouseVal'

        cleandf['preds'] = loaded_model.predict(cleandf.drop(target, axis=1))

        return cleandf
```

> Finally, the `save_predictions` task uses the Astro SDK [@aql.export_file](https://astro-sdk-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/astro/sql/operators/export.html) decorator to save the predictions dataframe in the local S3FileSystem. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, the `save_predictions` task uses the Astro SDK [`@aql.export_file`](https://astro-sdk-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/astro/sql/operators/export.html) decorator to save the predictions dataframe in the local S3FileSystem. 
```

> The second task `predict_housing` uses Astro SDK [@aql.dataframe](https://astro-sdk-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/astro/sql/operators/dataframe.html) decorator to load the trained model and feature DataFrame from the local S3FileSystem, then uses the loaded model to make predictions on the features DataFrame, adds the predicted values to the feature DataFrame, and finally returns the feature DataFrame with the predicted values included.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, the `predict_housing` task uses the Astro SDK [@aql.dataframe](https://astro-sdk-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/astro/sql/operators/dataframe.html) decorator to load the trained model and feature DataFrame from the local S3FileSystem, make predictions on the features DataFrame, add the predicted values to the feature DataFrame, and return the feature DataFrame with the predicted values included.
```

> Finally, our last task `save_predictions` uses uses the Astro SDK [@aql.export_file](https://astro-sdk-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/astro/sql/operators/export.html) decorator to save the predictions dataframe in the local S3FileSystem. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, the `save_predictions` task uses the Astro SDK [@aql.export_file](https://astro-sdk-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/astro/sql/operators/export.html) decorator to save the predictions dataframe in the local S3FileSystem. 
```

```

> We then use the Taskflow API to define the relationships between our tasks, setting them to complete linearly complete in the order defined.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> ```python

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

>     model_file_uri = train_model(ingestion_dataset, model_dir)
>     pred_df = predict_housing(ingestion_dataset, model_file_uri)
> 
>     pred_file = aql.export_file(task_id='save_predictions', 
>                                      input_data=pred_df, 
>                                      output_file=File(os.path.join(data_bucket, 'housing_pred.csv')),
>                                      if_exists="replace")
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Let's add a ## See also section here like we have on the other use cases. For this one I would probably link to Astro SDK tutorial, datasets guide, and anything else you think might be relevant.

---

> title: "ML Datasets"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: "ML Orchestration with Airflow datasets"
```

description: "Using Airflow Datasets to create a Producer/Consumer ML pipeline in Airflow "
id: use-case-airflow-ml-datasets

> sidebar_label: "Multi-Team ML Pipeline with Airflow Datasets"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: "ML Orchestration with Airflow datasets"
```

---

> title: "ML Datasets"

Author: ```suggestion
title: "ML Datasets" 
```

description: "Using Airflow Datasets to create a Producer/Consumer ML pipeline in Airflow "
id: use-case-airflow-ml-datasets
sidebar_label: "Multi-Team ML Pipeline with Airflow Datasets"

> sidebar_custom_props:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Run the project

To run the example project, first make sure Docker Desktop is running. Then, open your project directory and run:

```sh
astro dev start
```

This command builds your project and spins up 6 Docker containers on your machine to run it, the 4 standard airflow components as well as a local minio S3Filesystem and an ML flow instance. After the command finishes, open the Airflow UI at `https://localhost:8080/`, turn on the `astro_ml_producer` and `astro_ml_consumer` DAG's. Then trigger the `astro_ml_producer` DAG using the play button, and the `astro_ml_consumer` DAG will start once the producer DAG has completed. 

![Airflow UI View screenshot](/img/examples/airflowuiview.png)

## Project contents

### Data source

This project uses a [Scikit learn dataset](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.datasets.fetch_california_housing.html#sklearn.datasets.fetch_california_housing) that contains information on the California housing market. The data is automatically retrieved as part of the DAG, and does not need to be downloaded separately.

### Project code 

> This project consists of two DAG's. The [astro_ml_producer_DAG](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-produce-consume-ml/blob/main/astromlfinal/dags/astro_ml_producer.py) extracts the California Housing dataset from Scikit Learn and builds its model features using the Astro Python SDK [@aql.dataframe](https://astro-sdk-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/astro/sql/operators/dataframe.html) decorator before saving the data to the local S3Filesystem. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This project consists of two DAGs. The [astro_ml_producer_DAG](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-produce-consume-ml/blob/main/astromlfinal/dags/astro_ml_producer.py) is the producer DAG that provides the data. It extracts the California Housing dataset from Scikit Learn and builds a model. The [astro_ml_consumer_DAG](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-produce-consume-ml/blob/main/astromlfinal/dags/astro_ml_consumer.py) is the consumer DAG that takes the data from the first and uses it to train a model and generate predictions.
```

> The second [astro_ml_consumer_DAG](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-produce-consume-ml/blob/main/astromlfinal/dags/astro_ml_consumer.py) then takes this data from the local S3Filesystem, and uses it to train a Scikit linear model, before using the model to generate a prediction, which is then saved to the local S3Filesystem as well. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

#### DAG #1: astro_ml_producer

The first astro_ml_producer DAG has three tasks.

The `extract_housing_data` task imports data from SciKit learn using the fetch_california_housing module, and returns it as a dataframe for the next tasks to use using the Astro SDK [@aql.dataframe](https://astro-sdk-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/astro/sql/operators/dataframe.html) decorator.

```python
    @aql.dataframe(task_id='extract')
    def extract_housing_data() -> DataFrame:
        from sklearn.datasets import fetch_california_housing
        return fetch_california_housing(download_if_missing=True, as_frame=True).frame
```

> The next task `build_features` uses the Astro SDK [@aql.dataframe](https://astro-sdk-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/astro/sql/operators/dataframe.html) decorator, which means that it operates on a DataFrame and returns a DataFrame as well, eliminating the need to manually convert the raw California Housing Data into a dataframe. It takes two parameters: raw_df, which represents the raw input DataFrame, and model_dir, which is a string representing the directory where the model artifacts will be stored. This is used to accomplish the following

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, the `build_features` task uses the Astro SDK [@aql.dataframe](https://astro-sdk-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/astro/sql/operators/dataframe.html) decorator to implement a custom Python function that completes the following:
```

> - The necessary libraries are imported within the function, including `StandardScaler` from scikit-learn, `pandas` for DataFrame operations, dump from joblib for serialization, and `S3FileSystem` from s3fs for interacting with an S3-compatible object storage system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Imports necessary libraries including `StandardScaler` from scikit-learn, `pandas` for DataFrame operations, dump from joblib for serialization, and `S3FileSystem` from s3fs for interacting with an S3-compatible object storage system.
```

> - Then, An instance of an `S3FileSystem` as FS is created, specifying the access key, secret key, and the endpoint URL of the S3-compatible local storage system. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Creates an instance of an `S3FileSystem` as FS by specifying the access key, secret key, and the endpoint URL of the S3-compatible local storage system. 
```

> - Next, this task performs feature engineering by normalizing the input features using a StandardScaler, calculates metrics based on the scaler mean values, saves the scaler object for later monitoring and evaluation, and returns the normalized feature DataFrame `X` with the target column included.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Performs feature engineering by normalizing the input features using a StandardScaler, calculates metrics based on the scaler mean values, saves the scaler object for later monitoring and evaluation, and returns the normalized feature DataFrame `X` with the target column included.
```

> - Finally, if you look at the task decorator, you'll notice an outlets field that references `Dataset(dataset_uri))`. This creates an Airflow Dataset object called `built_features` that references the normalized feature Dataframe `X` that we stored in the S3Filesystem and sets it as an output of this task. We will then use this Dataset in the scheduling parameter of our `astro_ml_consumer` DAG to trigger it to run once this task is complete

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Creates an Airflow dataset object called `built_features` with `Dataset(dataset_uri))`. This tells Airflow that this dataset is produced by this task.
```

```python
    loaded_data = aql.export_file(task_id='save_data_to_s3', 
                                     input_data=extract_df, 
                                     output_file=File(os.path.join(data_bucket, 'housing.csv')), 
                                     if_exists="replace")
```

We then use the Taskflow API to define the relationships between these tasks, starting the DAG with the `extract_housing_data` task to import the housing dataset and return it as a task output. Then, the `extract_housing_data` task output is passed to the `save_data_to_s3` task to be saved to the local S3FileSystem. In parallel, the same dataset is passed to the `build_features` task, where is used for feature engineering.

```python
    extract_df = extract_housing_data()
    loaded_data = aql.export_file(task_id='save_data_to_s3', 
                                     input_data=extract_df, 
                                     output_file=File(os.path.join(data_bucket, 'housing.csv')), 
                                     if_exists="replace")

    feature_df = build_features(extract_df, model_dir)
```

> The second DAG, [astro_ml_consumer_DAG](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-produce-consume-ml/blob/main/astromlfinal/dags/astro_ml_consumer.py), consumes the normalized dataset created by the first DAG and uses it to train a model and execute a prediction on the median house value in California. 

Reviewer 2: @astronautyates I don't think this comment actually was resolved? Paragraph is still in the original section.
